README.md, before:

# DS-25 - Canonical's New Design System

Welcome to DS-25 (name subject to change), Canonical's next-generation design system. 
This monorepo serves as the central hub for our efforts to
create a cohesive, efficient, and accessible design system and related tooling.

## 1. Our Core Values

DS-25 is built upon the following core values:

* **Reduced Complexity:** We strive for simplicity and clarity in our design and code, making it simple for everyone to
  use and contribute.
* **Fast and Modern Tooling:** We leverage cutting-edge, forward-looking technologies and workflows to ensure a smooth
  and efficient development experience.
* **Accessibility:** We prioritize inclusivity by designing for accessibility from the ground up, ensuring our products
  are usable by everyone.
* **Performance:** We emphasize speed and efficiency, optimizing our design system for optimal performance in production
  and development environments.

## 2. Project Goals

DS-25 aims to provide a comprehensive design system that empowers teams to build consistent, high-quality user
experiences. We are focused on:

* Creating a robust and scalable foundation for Canonical's design language.
* Providing a seamless developer experience with modern tooling and clear documentation.
* Ensuring accessibility and inclusivity for all users.
* Establishing a collaborative environment for design and development.

## 3. Resources

To learn more, check out the following resources:

| Resource                                               | Description                                                                                                                             |
|--------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Vanilla Framework](https://vanillaframework.io)       | Canonical's current SCSS framework. This project aims to succeed Vanilla, offering enhanced features and modern development practices.  |
| [Contribution Documentation](./guides/CONTRIBUTING.md) | Learn how to contribute to DS-25. Find detailed instructions for installing, running, and working with the project locally.             |
| [Architecture Documentation](./guides/ARCHITECTURE.md) | Explore the architectural decisions and principles behind DS-25. This includes explanations of project structure, benchmarks, and more. |

## Thanks

<a href="https://www.chromatic.com/"><img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/321738/84662277-e3db4f80-af1b-11ea-88f5-91d67a5e59f6.png" width="153" height="30" alt="Chromatic" /></a>

Thanks to [Chromatic](https://www.chromatic.com/) for providing the visual testing platform that helps us review UI changes and catch visual regressions.

Commit message:

feat(ds-core-form): Middleware examples, MSW, Stories (#225)
* WIP

* Stories wip

* -

* Minor type improvements

* Fixes

* ~

* ~

* Linting

* -

* fixes

* Worker

* fix

* fix

* fix

* WIP

* Fixed yeoman error

* added adapter

* -

* -

* -

* -

README.md, after:

# DS-25 - Canonical's New Design System

Welcome to DS-25 (name subject to change), Canonical's next-generation design system. 
This monorepo serves as the central hub for our efforts to
create a cohesive, efficient, and accessible design system and related tooling.

## 1. Our Core Values

DS-25 is built upon the following core values:

* **Reduced Complexity:** We strive for simplicity and clarity in our design and code, making it simple for everyone to
  use and contribute.
* **Fast and Modern Tooling:** We leverage cutting-edge, forward-looking technologies and workflows to ensure a smooth
  and efficient development experience.
* **Accessibility:** We prioritize inclusivity by designing for accessibility from the ground up, ensuring our products
  are usable by everyone.
* **Performance:** We emphasize speed and efficiency, optimizing our design system for optimal performance in production
  and development environments.

## 2. Project Goals

DS-25 aims to provide a comprehensive design system that empowers teams to build consistent, high-quality user
experiences. We are focused on:

* Creating a robust and scalable foundation for Canonical's design language.
* Providing a seamless developer experience with modern tooling and clear documentation.
* Ensuring accessibility and inclusivity for all users.
* Establishing a collaborative environment for design and development.

## 3. Resources

To learn more, check out the following resources:

| Resource                                               | Description                                                                                                                             |
|--------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Vanilla Framework](https://vanillaframework.io)       | Canonical's current SCSS framework. This project aims to succeed Vanilla, offering enhanced features and modern development practices.  |
| [Contribution Documentation](./guides/CONTRIBUTING.md) | Learn how to contribute to DS-25. Find detailed instructions for installing, running, and working with the project locally.             |
| [Architecture Documentation](./guides/ARCHITECTURE.md) | Explore the architectural decisions and principles behind DS-25. This includes explanations of project structure, benchmarks, and more. |

## 4. Caveats
For the time being, node 23 seems to provoke [an error](https://github.com/canonical/ds25/issues/226). Use node v22 for the time being, for instance with `nvm use 22`.

## Thanks

<a href="https://www.chromatic.com/"><img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/321738/84662277-e3db4f80-af1b-11ea-88f5-91d67a5e59f6.png" width="153" height="30" alt="Chromatic" /></a>

Thanks to [Chromatic](https://www.chromatic.com/) for providing the visual testing platform that helps us review UI changes and catch visual regressions.
